Batphobia
Bats. They frighten some while comforting others, and even though he sports a stylish emblem of one across his chest, Batman has long been afraid of them. Why is that? The story everyone knows is that when Bruce was just a boy, he fell into a dark cave when a ton of bats swarmed around him brushing against his fragile skin and forever instilling a fear of bats inside him. Many also believe he is Batman because he set out to face his fears. But that's what they want you to think. 
It all started on a rainy Sunday morning. Bruce was 5. Willy the hamster was feeling adventurous and never stopped leaving the young Bruce Wayne in tears when he couldn't find Willy in his wonderful caged playground. After a long depressing day of searching, he did eventually find that cave. The Bat Cave. Starting an expedition of his own, Bruce searched for his next companion. Nothing interested him, though. And then he saw it, the bat. Fascinated by its movement, he followed it in its eccentric flight through the cave. It enchanted him, and he was contemplating keeping it and taking it home to his parents. And then, things took a turn for the worst. 
Out of nowhere, the bat came out and slapped him across the face with its wing. Calling for help as the child fell to the dim, black cave, the bat was ready to make his life a lot more interesting. As the swarm came they crept up closer and closer and before brushing against him and frightening him completely, they showed him a familiar face. Willy. 
Bruce felt ecstatic. Willy had been in the cave all along! As he went to grab the hamster, the bats suddenly formed a circle around him and began to carry Willy away. Bruce chased after them tripping on several rocks. The bats began to swarm him, he resisted, and they carried him off as well. They were now flying through the cave at great speeds. A light in the distance was growing in his vision. Barely making out the shape of the light, he realized it was an opening. Soon enough, he could hear running water. As they approached, he could feel the air of the waterfall pushing his hair backwards. There was only one chance to escape, but it was risky, for he would only have a slight second to save Willy. 
Bruce lunged forward, pushed off the rock below him, and opened his grasp for Willy. For the shortest moment, he felt his pet in his little soft hand. And then he was gone. 
Willy had backed away, never taking the hand of his former owner. He had wanted more to life than a metal spinning wheel and a water tank. The little boy walked back inside dripping wet, primarily because of the water, but also from the tears snaking down the side of his cheek. 
Conclusion
This explanation is still consistent with his trips to the Bat Cave, his fear of bats, and his abandonment issues (the death of his parents didn't help). While many believe in the standard definition of his fear, it's not the only theory.
This isn't it either.